temp.md, before:

# React 101

## todo

- [ ] move this to Note?
- [x] how to sort items?
  - seems can not do it on UI, have to sort array first(make a copy of state data),
    - then use sorted array to map to jsx
  - [ref](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/43572436/sort-an-array-of-objects-in-react-and-render-them/43572944)
- [ ] disable delete button when deleting
- [ ] confirm(2 steps) before delete
- [x] router(nav bar)
- [ ] cache loaded data for 5 sec when switch tabs?
- [ ] UI refine

## react basic

- background
  - react is a js library(though behave like a framework) published by facebook
  - SPA web app
  - the 'V' in MVC
  - name convention
    - capital first char for component name
- virtual DOM
- state
  - component can have state which is an object that determines how that component renders and behaves
  - we can also have 'application level' state by using a state manager like 'Redux' or reacts own 'context api'
    - which can be used to share data between components
- uses Webpack but needs no configuration form you
- comes bundled with a dev server with hot reload
- prerequisite
  - nodejs
  - react developer tools (chrome web store)
- react library
  - react-dom, load components into browser
  - react-native, build app for mobile
  - react-scripts, dev server related
- service worker
  - for progressive web app and offline content
- lifecycle methods
  - render()
  - componentWillMount()
  - componentDidMount()
    - do ajax call inner this func???
- events
- JSX - html code block
  - use 'className=' instead of 'class='

## webpack

- webpack (v4)
- background
  - module bundler
    - webpack reads the entry point and analyzes its dependencies, its dependencies' dep, and so on
    - webpack bundles the entry point(e.g index.js or app.js) and all its dependencies into a single file
  - dev only dependency
  - for smaller and faster build
  - minify js/css files
  - bundle source files into one js file(static assets - can view on browser directly, without web server)
- functionality
  - code splitting
  - loaders (css, sass, jsx, ts)
    - css-loader, style-loader
  - plugins
- preset
  - babel-preset-env, without any config, 'env' behaves the same as babel-preset-es2015/es2016/es2017 together
- package.json file
  - `scripts.build: "webpack"`
  - on bash window: `npm run build`
- webpack config file (webpack.config.js in root folder)
  - entry: `./src/index.js`
  - output
    - path: `path.join(__dirname, '/dist')`
    - filename: `index_bundle.js` //can be any name you want
  - module
    - rules
      - // rule sample 0
      - test: `/\.js$/` //end with .js
      - exclude: `/node_modules/`
      - use: `{ loader: 'babel-loader' }`
      - query: `{ presets: ['env'] }`
      - // rule sample 1
      - test: `/\.css$/`
      - use: `{ loader: 'style-loader!css-loader' }`
    - plugins: `[ new HtmlWebpackPlugin({ template: './src/index.html' })]`
- webpack-dev-server package
  - auto reload after detect file changes
  - setup
    - install by `npm install webpack-dev-server --save-dev`
    - update package.json, add `scripts.start: "webpack-dev-server --output-public-path=/dist/"`
    - on bash window, run `npm start`

## babel

- babel ability
  - translate ES6(or later) to lower version (e.g es5) for compatible
  - a js compiler
- fix async, await error 'regeneratorRuntime is not defined'
  - install babel-polyfill, babel-preset-env, babel-preset-stage-0
  - webpack.config.js, add `babel-polyfill` to entry, add `stage-0` to loaders[].query.presets[]
- config

```js
```

## CLI

```sh
# install dependencies
npm install

# bundles the app into static files for prod
npm run build

# start dev server
npm start

# start test runner
npm test

# one step - create app (under current folder) - this won't install react globally
npx create-react-app .

# step by step - with webpack and babel
npm init --yes         # create package.json
npm i react react-dom  # react libraries (prod only need these 2)
# dev dependencies
npm i --save-dev webpack webpack-dev-server webpack-cli
npm i --save-dev babel-core babel-loader babel-preset-env babel-preset-react html-webpack-plugin
# create file in root folder and setup config
touch webpack.config.js
# create app entry files
touch ./src/index.html
touch ./src/index.js
# add <div id='app'></div> to <body>  # react-dom will looking for this elem and insert react view
# create file for babel presets in root folder
touch .babelrc  # add { "presets": ["env", "react"] } to file
# setup index.js - hookup react render with dom elem
# main line
ReactDom.render(<App />, document.getElementById('app'));
# impl App.js
// you app logic
# modify package.json, set following entries
scripts.start: "webpack-dev-server --mode development --hot --open"
scripts.build: "webpack --mode production"

# removes this tool and copies build dependencies, config files and scripts into the app dir
# if you do this, you can't go back
# npm run eject

```

## error fix

- deploy to subdomain
  - // -------------------------- correct the url path --v
  - opt1) package.json file, `homepage:"http://leoskywork.com/r101/"` # `only affect build`
    - alternative, you can set `homepage:"."` rather hard coded the domain
  - opt2) app.js file, `<Router basename="/r101">`
  - opt31) tag `<Link to={process.env.PUBLIC_URL}+'/about' ...` ---# `affect tag <a>`
  - opt32) tag `<Route path={process.env.PUBLIC_URL}+'/about' ...` # `affect router(browser address input)`
  - do (opt1, opt2) or (opt1, opt31, opt32)
  - // -------------------------- auto move bits to dest folder --v
  - modify package.json, `scripts.build: "react-scripts build && rm -rf ../dist/react101 && mv build ../dist/react101"`
  - run `npm run build`

## more

todo

Commit message:

doc -fix error 404 when refresh a sub url path

temp.md, after:

# React 101

## todo

- [ ] move this to learning Note?
- [x] how to sort items?
  - seems can not do it on UI, have to sort array first(make a copy of state data),
    - then use sorted array to map to jsx
  - [ref](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/43572436/sort-an-array-of-objects-in-react-and-render-them/43572944)
- [x] disable delete button when deleting
- [ ] confirm(2 steps) before delete
- [x] router(nav bar)
- [ ] sometimes page doesn't load correctly when nav by click on backward button of chrome
- [ ] cache loaded data for 5 sec when switch tabs?

## react basic

- background
  - react is a js library(though behave like a framework) published by facebook
  - SPA web app
  - the 'V' in MVC
  - name convention
    - capital first char for component name
- virtual DOM
- state
  - component can have state which is an object that determines how that component renders and behaves
  - we can also have 'application level' state by using a state manager like 'Redux' or reacts own 'context api'
    - which can be used to share data between components
- uses Webpack but needs no configuration form you
- comes bundled with a dev server with hot reload
- prerequisite
  - nodejs
  - react developer tools (chrome web store)
- react library
  - react-dom, load components into browser
  - react-native, build app for mobile
  - react-scripts, dev server related
- service worker
  - for progressive web app and offline content
- lifecycle methods
  - render()
  - componentWillMount()
  - componentDidMount()
    - do ajax call inner this func???
- events
- JSX - html code block
  - use 'className=' instead of 'class='

## webpack

- webpack (v4)
- background
  - module bundler
    - webpack reads the entry point and analyzes its dependencies, its dependencies' dep, and so on
    - webpack bundles the entry point(e.g index.js or app.js) and all its dependencies into a single file
  - dev only dependency
  - for smaller and faster build
  - minify js/css files
  - bundle source files into one js file(static assets - can view on browser directly, without web server)
- functionality
  - code splitting
  - loaders (css, sass, jsx, ts)
    - css-loader, style-loader
  - plugins
- preset
  - babel-preset-env, without any config, 'env' behaves the same as babel-preset-es2015/es2016/es2017 together
- package.json file
  - `scripts.build: "webpack"`
  - on bash window: `npm run build`
- webpack config file (webpack.config.js in root folder)
  - entry: `./src/index.js`
  - output
    - path: `path.join(__dirname, '/dist')`
    - filename: `index_bundle.js` //can be any name you want
  - module
    - rules
      - // rule sample 0
      - test: `/\.js$/` //end with .js
      - exclude: `/node_modules/`
      - use: `{ loader: 'babel-loader' }`
      - query: `{ presets: ['env'] }`
      - // rule sample 1
      - test: `/\.css$/`
      - use: `{ loader: 'style-loader!css-loader' }`
    - plugins: `[ new HtmlWebpackPlugin({ template: './src/index.html' })]`
- webpack-dev-server package
  - auto reload after detect file changes
  - setup
    - install by `npm install webpack-dev-server --save-dev`
    - update package.json, add `scripts.start: "webpack-dev-server --output-public-path=/dist/"`
    - on bash window, run `npm start`

## babel

- babel ability
  - translate ES6(or later) to lower version (e.g es5) for compatible
  - a js compiler
- fix async, await error 'regeneratorRuntime is not defined'
  - install babel-polyfill, babel-preset-env, babel-preset-stage-0
  - webpack.config.js, add `babel-polyfill` to entry, add `stage-0` to loaders[].query.presets[]
- config

```js
```

## CLI

```sh
# install dependencies
npm install

# bundles the app into static files for prod
npm run build

# start dev server
npm start

# start test runner
npm test

# one step - create app (under current folder) - this won't install react globally
npx create-react-app .

# step by step - with webpack and babel
npm init --yes         # create package.json
npm i react react-dom  # react libraries (prod only need these 2)
# dev dependencies
npm i --save-dev webpack webpack-dev-server webpack-cli
npm i --save-dev babel-core babel-loader babel-preset-env babel-preset-react html-webpack-plugin
# create file in root folder and setup config
touch webpack.config.js
# create app entry files
touch ./src/index.html
touch ./src/index.js
# add <div id='app'></div> to <body>  # react-dom will looking for this elem and insert react view
# create file for babel presets in root folder
touch .babelrc  # add { "presets": ["env", "react"] } to file
# setup index.js - hookup react render with dom elem
# main line
ReactDom.render(<App />, document.getElementById('app'));
# impl App.js
// you app logic
# modify package.json, set following entries
scripts.start: "webpack-dev-server --mode development --hot --open"
scripts.build: "webpack --mode production"

# removes this tool and copies build dependencies, config files and scripts into the app dir
# if you do this, you can't go back
# npm run eject

```

## error fix

- deploy to subdomain
  - // -------------------------- correct the url path --v
  - opt1) package.json file, `homepage:"http://leoskywork.com/r101/"` # `only affect build`
    - alternative, you can set `homepage:"."` rather hard coded the domain
  - opt2) app.js file, `<Router basename="/r101">`
  - opt31) tag `<Link to={process.env.PUBLIC_URL}+'/about' ...` ---# `affect tag <a>`
  - opt32) tag `<Route path={process.env.PUBLIC_URL}+'/about' ...` # `affect router(browser address input)`
  - do (opt1, opt2) or (opt1, opt31, opt32)
  - // -------------------------- auto move bits to dest folder --v
  - modify package.json, `scripts.build: "react-scripts build && rm -rf ../dist/react101 && mv build ../dist/react101"`
  - run `npm run build`
- error 404 when refresh page on a sub url path(non-home page)
  - a quick work around is to config IIS to redirect to home page (e.g /r101/) when have 404 error
  - sophisticated approach would be use hash history/browser history
    - [ref](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/27928372/react-router-urls-dont-work-when-refreshing-or-writing-manually)
    - [ref2](https://github.com/jintoppy/react-training/blob/master/basic/node_modules/react-router/docs/guides/Histories.md#browserhistory)

## more
